
# Certified 1-Girl Archives

## License

All LLM output, by definition, is copyright-free. All other content is
available under a standard MIT license.


## Purpose

Convert a large archive of glamour/fashion/idol photographs into
usable GenAI image prompts. I'm targeting only modern image models
that can do something sensible with paragraphs or simple JSON schemas.
While only Ideogram 4 really makes use of JSON for complex,
predictable composition, Flux.2-Klein-9B and Krea 2 Turbo produce
excellent results from the schema described below. They don't follow
it 100%, but it still works, and the `upcycle` script exploits the
schema to programmatically add diversity to prompts, basically using
each prompt as a template.

Probably the best results would come from running the upcycled JSON
through an LLM like Gemma-4 using the system prompt in
`sysprompts/markdown.txt`, creating a single flowing paragraph, but
due to the subject matter, you'll want to use an uncensored,
abliterated, or "heretic" version of the LLM for best results. I do
this with the `prompt` script from my [GenAI
Stuff](https://github.com/jgreely/genaistuff) repo, which is currently
tied to the `lmstudio` SDK (TODO: migrate to `litellm` for more
flexibility).

The core of the processing is the `sysprompts/vision.txt` system
prompt and a vision model like `qwen3-vl-4b` (which has not complained
about the content of any of the images in my archive, which include
nudity but not sexual activity), which produces a Markdown dictionary
list using a *relatively* consistent set of keys.

The script `md2jsonl` processes all Markdown files listed on STDIN
(one per line), sanitizing keys and values, and adding a UUID for QA
testing. There are a few edge cases it doesn't handle yet, but it
rejects only a small fraction of my photos.


## Dataset

The compiled dataset consists of numbered JSONL files in
`data/NNNN.jsonl`, each containing 5,000 lines, one JSON prompt per
line. The contents are in no particular order, and in fact were
shuffled before being split. The size was chosen for convenient
maintenance.

The (upcoming) release tarball will include three fields (so far):
uuid, json, and prompt, where the prompt field is a flattened
"paragraph" version of each prompt, auto-generated by
`scripts/json2txt.py`. This is not an LLM-generated coherent
paragraph, just the same data without the JSON chartjunk.


## JSON prompt schema

The basic structure of a processed promptis shown below. The five
top-level fields will always be present, with default values for
style, setting, and composition inserted by `md2jsonl` if necessary.
There will be at least one entry in the subject list, but all fields
are optional, and are not limited to the ones below.

```
{
    "style": "",
    "setting": "",
    "composition": "",
    "subject": [
        {
            "subject": "",
            "lighting_type": "",
            "lighting_intensity": "",
            "lighting_source": "",
            "camera_angle": "",
            "color_palette": "",
            "sex": "",
            "age": "",
            "pose": "",
            "expression": "",
            "complexion": "",
            "figure": "",
            "ethnicity": "",
            "clothing": "",
            "accessories": "",
            "hair_color": "",
            "eye_color": "",
            "eye_shape": "",
            "skin_color": "",
            "hair_length": "",
            "hair_style": "",
            ...
        },
        ...
    ],
    "comment": "a uuid"
}
```

The UUID in the "comment" field is at the end to minimize its impact
on the output. If a prompt contains references like "text overlay on
left", it's possible for a model to decide that the comment field
should be that text. They can be removed entirely by running the JSONL
file through `jq -c 'del(.comment)'`.


## Scripts

- `scripts/md2jsonl.py` - convert LLM-analyzed prompts from Markdown
  to JSON, with cleaned-up structure and field names.

- `scripts/upcycle.py` - inject new field values into JSON prompts,
  both static text and random/shuffled/sorted/sequential wildcards.
  This can also be used to script updates for LLM-generated tagsets
  and prompts (with appropriate quoting; should do in python...):

- `scripts/dupe.py` - duplicate each line from STDIN N times (default
  10); useful for upcycling the same prompt several different ways.

- `scripts/json2txt.py` - flatten a JSONL dataset into a single-line
  "paragraph" consisting of key/val pairs.

- `scripts/1gmixer.py` - select top-level fields from 4 prompts to
  merge into a new one. Best used with `shuf` and `upcycle` to increase
  variety.

## Wildcards in `upcycle`

The text-replacement system is pretty simple. The command-line format
is `field=value`, where *every instance of that field* is replaced by
the value, which can be either a literal string or a wildcard lookup.

- `field` indicates which dict key in the JSON is to be replaced.

- `value` may contain any valid Unicode string, and will be searched
  for possible wildcard references; any text that does not match the
  name of a wildcard will be left alone.

- valid wildcard names consist of lowercase letters a-z only, and will
  be searched for in the wildcard directory (default `./wc`) as
  $wc.txt.

- So, for `pose=actionpose`, assuming a file named `actionpose.txt`,
  every `pose` field in the prompt will be replaced a line selected
  from the file.

- By default, wildcards are selected sequentially, wrapping around
  when they've all been used once. The wildcard can be optionally
  prefixed with "rand", "shuf", or "sort" followed by a colon. "shuf"
  and "sort" change the order of the wildcard items, while "rand" just
  grabs a random one each time.

- If an exclamation point is used instead of a colon, then that
  wildcard is looked up only once per prompt, and the value is reused
  for other instances of that field. (i.e., `hair_color=shuf!colors`
  would make all subjects in one prompt blonde, all subjects in the
  next one redheads, etc)

- Wildcard files contain one line per value, with optional weights set
  by prefixing the line with "Nx ", where N is a non-negative
  floating-point number. Any line without a weight has its weight set
  to 1. Weighted-random selection is *only* used in the "rand" mode,
  and ignored for all other modes. Blank lines and lines beginning
  with "#" are ignored.

`upcycle` accepts a `-d` option to set the directory to look for
wildcard files, `-l` to list available wildcards in that directory,
`-f` to process a JSON file containing key/val pairs (see samples in
the `tests` directory), and a `-x` option for a comma-separated list
of fields to completely delete from the JSON.

Example:

```
shuf data/0001.jsonl | head -1 |
    ./scripts/upcycle.py -f tests/upcycle1girl.json
```


## Vision

All photos were analyzed by `qwen3-vl-4b`, with the system prompt set
to the contents of `sysprompts/vision.txt`. This creates a
*relatively* consistent Markdown-format list which can be processed by
`md2jsonl`.

Efforts have been made to remove anime-style and AI-generated images
from the sources used, but I'm sure I missed a few. Send me the UUIDs
and I'll fix them.

`md2jsonl` makes a best-effort attempt to add an "nsfw" tag to all
suggestive images, but it relies on searching for a short list of
keywords, which will allow some naughtiness to escape notice.


## Conversion to paragraph prompt

The contents of `sysprompts/markdown.txt` can be used to generate
high-quality single-paragraph prompts from the JSON. It's copied from
the Hidream repo, and works extremely well with most LLMs. For best
results, use an uncensored or abliterated local model.


## Source Photographs

There is no porn here. Nudity, yes. Suggestive posing, definitely.
Women kissing and/or caressing, yeah, that happens. None of the source
photos feature genital contact involving mouths, hands, other
genitals, household appliances, objects, tentacles, or pets. In the
words of Alton Brown, "that's another show".

Because the majority of original photos appeared in Japanese magazines
and web sites, there's a strong bias toward dark hair and dark eyes,
even though the LLM rarely included a specific ethnic origin. Using
`upcycle` to replace the "hair_color", "eye_color", and/or
"skin_color" fields will significantly increase diversity, even
without using something like `ethnicity=rand:races`.

The Japanese origin also explains the presence of cosplay outfits
and animal ears.

While most quoted text has been removed, there are some cases where
the LLM simply said things like "with text overlay", which will create
random text in an image. These are found almost entirely in the
"setting", "composition", and "style" top-level fields, and I've tried
to regex out the most common patterns.

Note that the "age" field was present in less than 15% of the prompts,
which would leave it up to the image-generation model. This is unwise,
and I added a default 'College-age' value. In the handful of cases
where the LLM mistakenly interpreted youthful Japanese features as
"young girl", "teen", or "child", I have corrected it to "young
woman".

There are also defaults added for "setting" ("Intimate Boudoir
Setting"), "style" ("Natural Lifestyle Photography"), and
"composition" ("Centered"). All default values have caps to
distinguish them from LLM-generated values.

Every image should have an adult woman as the primary subject. If any
of them don't, the UUID in the comment field can be used to file bug
reports.

Prompts will be added to the collection in batches of 5,000, after
being manually reviewed. Before publishing a batch, I generate a
256x256 image for each prompt using Krea 2 Turbo, and quickly
[deathmatch](https://github.com/jgreely/deathmatch) them. It's
possible that a GenAI image in the source material slipped through all
my checks, but I'm pretty sure I caught most of them by their
filenames and obvious subject matter.
